Charlie,

  I appreciate you reaching out to me in acknowledgment of my writing capabilites. I have high hopes to benefit your understanding on what it means and looks like to be a professional writer. To my awareness, you are starting at an entry-level associate engineer position and further inquiring assistance about effective communication. For this prestigious company, I am expecting they have the basic understanding of respectable writing and can praise you for your reach. In my email, I will be summarizing pointers and factors to sounding qualified in your current status. Such as, balancing a set knowing of why your writing matters, and how you can use this information in the future.

  Audience, Purpose, and Occasion: 
  
  Means to the theme of the setting, by further finding who you are reaching, what it is, and why it matters. You have a direct base for the writing to follow. Having a direct setup allows you to know exactly what it is you are trying to say and usually leads to a better-formatted system. Having empathy for the reader, is knowing what the consumer wants. Asking what satisfies the criteria can encourage the writer to stay specific, it is best to avoid “mind reading”. Another reason is to put yourself in the position of another person, dependent on the situation, leaving out arguable opinions of your “self”. Successfully knowing these concepts, can help guide your targetted listener to better understanding, contextualizing, and visualizing. 
  
  Document Usability:
  
  Contains a variety of elements, but they all pertain to the shaping of information to be effortlessly scannable. The strongest aspect is allowing your readers to pick up the searched topic at the ease of a glance. This is typically done through the use of header/footers, table of contents, and page numbers. Another key form of readability is in the text itself, utilizing highlights, italics, boldness, and underlining. These are the most commonly used forms of quick documentation, that positively affect the human eye while reading digital text. Noting that the visualization aspect to a reader can be produced aside from the body of writing, by including a relevant image to capture meaning. If appropriate, this article conveys that “it's easy to overlook a chunk of text, but an image will always stand out.” To read more about images click here. Something I had not known about prior to taking a Professional Writing course, is tl;dr. Standing for “too long; did not read”, it is a shortened way to communicate with the reader a summarized statement. All of which will be related to the given topic, however, a tl;dr is not usually performed in a professional setting. Lastly, usability in visual document is the acronym CRAP: Contrast, Repetition, Alignment, Proximity. As the foundation principals of design, it is the pairing of graphic and text objects in a medium. Mostly, to be found in contexts like graphic design, journalism, and website credibility.

  How to Write Useable Document:
  
  Entails to the characteristics of scannability and makes readability more navigable. The “Don’t Make Me Think” way generally forms text as short and concise. Elements like titles, headings, subheadings are to be specific and clear, not too many words. Straying away from “clickbait” or false advertising, make it accurate for the reader. Another key thing to think about is to write for a team and combining a collective experience. To write for the human eye has been studied extensively, in research the F-shaped pattern is the most noticed. This means to write with a limited width in a row of text. Visual elements are important to readability as most measures into the speed of information gathered, the accuracy of their findings, and the overall emotions of how easy/difficult it was. Writing with an intention to create useable documents, is the greatest professional contexts.
  
  Improving your talking skills is important to utilize in a daily setting. Our class primarily discussed how speaking is a long-term skill set and is likable in connection building. By being an effective communicator, you can access greater opportunities such as a careers, relationships, mutual connections, etc. The following core ideas are what most stuck with me as a growing writer. Audience, Purpose, and Occasion; Document usability (headings, density, typeface choices, tl;dr, and CRAP); How to write useable documentation. I discovered the three essential topics talked about in this email from my Saint Edwards Professional Writing course, that I had enrolled in Spring 2023. 
